In this section, we are going to learn
about nat or network address translation.
But before learn about what is nat, we
are going to create the topology first,
so we will learn with an
example case. Let’s just start.
Let’s import 3 router, this is router 1,
this is router 2, and this is router 3.
Then, let’s also import 1 server,
1 switch, and some client.
Router 1 will be the router in the google,
router 2 will become ISP or internet service
provider, and then router 3 is the customer.
Let’s connecting router 1 to the server,
let’s say this is a google, and then
from google router to ISP router,
and from ISP to the customer.
In the customer, we will have 2
vlan, let’s say vlan 10 and vlan 20.
For the ip addressing, here
will be 172.16.10.1/24,
and then the server will be 172.16.10.2/24,
From google that connected
to ISP will be 10.10.10.1/24,
and here in ISP will be 10.10.10.2/24,
From ISP that connected to
customer will be 10.20.20.1/24,
and here in the customer will be 10.20.20.2/24.
For vlan 10, we will use 192.168.1.0/24, and
for vlan 20, we will use 192.168.20.0/24,
Okay so this is the topology that we are going to
use to learn about network address translation.
I think enough for this video, in the next video,
we are going to start configuring this topology.
Thankyou for watching and
see you on the next video.